# 2-5

If you like the Luhn formula, you can try writing a program for a different check-digit system, like the 13-digit ISBN system. The program could take an identification number and verify it or take a number without a check digit and generate the check digit.

#### ISBN-13

To verify a 13-digit ISBN number, you multiply each number in turn, from left to right, by a number. The first digit is multiplied by 1, the second by 3, the third by 1, the fourth by 3, etc. The resulting products are then added together. Modulo 10 is then performed on that sum. If the remainder is zero, the ISBN is valid.

In order to calculate a check digit if there are only the first 12 numbers provided, you perform the same arithmetic as in the previous paragraph. However, instead of the remainder being the check of whether or not the number is valid, it is instead a means of calculating the check digit. If the remainder is 0, the check digit is 0. If the remainder is not zero, 10 - remainder is the check digit.

#### Similar to Luhn Checksum Solution

Need to change doubleDigitValue function to instead multiply by 3.

Need to take out the logic for odd and even-length numbers as both should multiply by 3 at the same spots.

I want to be able to both validate whether a number provided is a valid ISBN number and to calculate a check digit if one isn't provided and then validate whether the number is a valid ISBN number, so I need to have a variable in there somewhere keeping track of whether the number entered is a 12 or 13 digit number.

Also need to have the logic for creating the check digit.

```
include <iostream>
using std::cin;
using std::cout;


int tripleDigitValue(int digit){
  int tripleDigit = digit * 3;
  return tripleDigit;
}

int main() {
  char digit;
  int count = 0;
  int checksum = 0;
  int position = 1;
  cout << "Enter a number: ";
  digit = cin.get();
  while (digit != 10) {
    count++;
    if (position % 2 == 0) {
        checksum += tripleDigitValue(digit - '0');

    } else {
        checksum += (digit - '0');
    }
    digit = cin.get();
    position++;
}
  if (count == 12) {
    int checkdigit = 10 - (checksum % 10);
    cout << "Check digit is: " << checkdigit << "\n";
    checksum += checkdigit;
  }
  cout << "Checksum is " << checksum << ". \n";
  if (checksum % 10 == 0) {
    cout << "Checksum is divisible by 10.  Valid. \n";
  } else {
    cout << "Checksum is not divisible by 10.  Invalid. \n";
  }
  cout << "Count is: " << count << "\n";
}
```
